# Brazilian Payments System
The Brazilian Payments System (SPB) comprises the entities, systems and procedures related to the clearing and settlement systems processing funds transfers and transactions with foreign currency, financial assets and securities. By law, the SPB also includes payment schemes and payment institutions.  

The members of SPB in charge of clearing and/or settlement services are called Financial Market Infrastructures (FMI), which are regulated in accordance to international recommendations compiled in the Principles for Financial Market Infrastructures (PFMI) for central counterparties (CCP), central securities depositories (CSD), securities settlement systems (SSS), trade repositories (TR) etc.  

## Banco Central do Brasil´s role
The financial market’s customers and users shall have confidence in the steadiness of services provided by the SBP participants since clearing and settlement systems underpin virtually all transactions undertaken in the Brazilian economy. By law, the Banco Central do Brasil (BCB) has the authority to pursue a sound and reliable SPB and its continuous improvement, in accordance to guidelines issued by the National Monetary Council (CMN). Particularly, the BCB aims at fostering the general access to payment services in order to promote financial inclusion along with social and economic welfare.  

Therefore, the BCB licenses, regulates and supervises the SBP’s members to preserve the transmission channels of monetary policy and the financial stability—especially mitigating the systemic risk. Furthermore, the BCB operates and oversees two major settlement services: the Reserves Transfer System (STR)—the real-time settler of clearinghouses' operations—and the Special System for Settlement and Custody (Selic)—for clearing and settlement of transactions with government securities.  

With regard to the retail payments, the BCB is in charge of promoting their soundness, interoperability, efficiency, innovation, competition and their access to services and infrastructures without obstruction. Therefore, the BCB oversees retails payments and constantly monitors the evolution of the payments industry, the use of access channels, the pricing policy, the use of payment cards as well as other payment instruments employed in the industry, the FMIs and their levels of cooperation and interoperability.  

The Brazilian Securities and Exchange Commission (CVM), by its turn, licenses, regulates and oversees clearinghouses and other clearing/settlement providers carrying out transactions with securities—except for trades with government securities and corporate bonds issued by banks. As a condition for licensing, the CVM also requires the compliance with the PFMI. The previous mentioned entities are also subject to the BCB licensing and supervision, concurrently to the CVM’s mandates, when it comes exclusively to the analysis and prevention of systemic risks within the National Financial System (SFN).  

In this context, if an entity operates a systemically important system, it is required to act as a CCP and ensure the settlement of all the transactions on the system, except for the case of issuer risk. Actually, BCB can state, at its discretion, which settlement system may have the potential to pose systemic risk (depending on its volume and/or the business nature), entailing possibly differentiated regulation. For instance, the availability index in systemically important systems should be at least 99.8% (Central Bank Circular 3,057/2001).

Specifically for transactions with securities, derivatives and foreign currency, the BCB performs monthly backtesting analysis for the clearing and settlement systems operating through a central counterpart (CCP), aiming to determine:

the adequacy of additional collaterals and safeguards to cover the default of the two participants with the most critical financial exposure (credit risk); and
the liquidity adequacy to guarantee the timely settlement of obligations assumed by the two participants with the highest financial obligations (liquidity risk) on every day evaluated.
The BCB similarly monitors operational risk indicators (availability index, number of failures and capacity utilization in real time settlement systems). The CCP also have to comply with regulation for cyber security issues and prevention of money laundering. Indeed, the BCB performs yearly on-site inspections in the FMI, which may result in action plans for tackling identified gaps.

## The role of financial intermediaries
Banking and non-banking financial institutions are relevant to the SPB since they collect demand deposits and provide demand accounts used by the firms and households for payments and funds transfers. It is important to mention the role of the ‘banking correspondents’- postal offices, lottery houses, supermarkets, drugstores and other small retailers - that process payments, deposits for demand, term and savings deposit accounts, on behalf of banking institutions.